>> Todd Gardner: So we just got done
talking about testing different ways we
can test the various tools.
Now we're gonna talk about setting goals.
We're gonna figure out how fast does
your website actually need to be?
There's a couple of things
we need to talk about.
One is, how fast is fast enough?
Who gets to decide that?
And then you need understand some things
about their users, about your users.
So how fast is enough?
Fast, what fast is is very
subjective to who your users are?
Different user groups are gonna think
fast means different things has
largely determined based on what kind
of app are you building, and for whom?
If you're building something that
is showing developer stickers,
it's got to be pretty fast cuz your
audience is developers who are impatient,
and the value of the thing I'm
delivering is relatively low.
It's not super important to their day
to day life, whereas, if you're doing
something super important like applying
for a loan or filing your taxes,
people are willing to wait a lot
longer for those higher value things.
When people think about performance,
it's not the absolute
numbers that always matter,
because users tend to remember things
slower than how they actually happened.
When something happens,
if they feel like it interrupted them,
even if the actual is technically Okay,
often they'll perceive it.
A human will perceive it as slightly
slower than the objective number, and
going back the next day, they'll
remember it even worse than it was.
And so the raw numbers don't
always completely matter depending
on who your users are.
Now this comes back to psychology.
So web performance is not just about
the tech, it's about the people.
And people are willing to wait different
amounts of times for different things.
There's a couple of things that came out.
This was some psychology studies
that happened in the 60s.
And there was a couple of
just general learnings.
This isn't specific to computers,
this is general.
This was a study of
people waiting in lines.
And what people felt and reactions to it.
And there are some key learnings.
One, people want to start.
If you're going to do something,
they're anxious to get started with
whatever it is they came to do.
They want to see the sticker,
they want to fill out the application,
they want to do the search, they wanna
do the thing that they came here for and
they're anxious to get going.
If people are waiting and they're bored,
they'll remember that wait longer
Better than it actually was.
So a lot of times you'll see people
like throwing up fun animations or
like little games or something to distract
the user when they're waiting, because
they're trying to get around this because
if they're bored while they're waiting,
like we were sitting there waiting for
web page tests to start that,
even though that probably
wasn't objectively that long.
It felt like forever to me, because I
was bored waiting for it to be done.
I wanted to get on to the next thing.
Anxious waits feel slower.
If I have a lot of anxiety about
this action that's happening,
like showing a live performance
result in front of a live audience.
I wanna I feel like that's
slower than it actually was.
I'm anxious about the results and
that it doesn't break.
If I don't understand why I'm waiting,
it feels longer.
Again, why did that take so long?
It never took that long in any test or
rehearsal that I ever did.
I didn't understand why it was slow,
and so it felt slower.
This was actually a great case
study that I could call back here.
So unexplained waits feel slower if
I don't understand why I'm waiting.
Uncertain waits if I don't
understand how long it's gonna take,
like I have no context.
If this is gonna be a minute,
an hour, a day or a week,
that's going to feel longer
than it actually is.
And people will wait longer for
higher value things.
So a developer sticker,
maybe not willing to wait very long.
A insurance application, willing to wait
for that, might want to wait for that.
In fact,
sometimes you have to be intentionally
slow if you're a particularly high value.
The most notable case of this is Turbotax.
If any of you use Turbotax, there is
an intentional slowdown in Turbotax.
When you are all done with your taxes and
you hit submit.
There's this animation banner called
looking over every detail where it's like
shuffling through papers and the Atlantic
went through the source code, or
the decompiled the source code.
There's nothing actually,
it's doing it is a fixed time weight.
It knows everything it
needs at that point.
TurboTax in their studies believe
the user will trust their system
more if they slow it down like
it's actually doing something.
Like it's not just a thin wrapper
around IRS APIs that have existed and
there's no reason for
TurboTax to exist anymore.
I hope Intuit isn't a subscriber.
[LAUGH] so this is a case that
people not only will wait for value,
but they want to wait longer if
something is perceived as high value.